Okay,
guys.
And welcome back.
And in this letch,
we're gonna have a look at a two dimensional static array.
Now you'll remember that a static array has a couple of limitations,
one that the dimensions of it are hard coded.
That is,
we cannot change them.
Run time.
However big we set it up is how big it is.
Andi.
It's permanent on The other drawback is that it is not destroyed when the code ends.
Even if you add on erase array statement,
it still gobbles up your computer's memory.
But just for completeness,
we're going to do it here.
So what we have is a statement here that says Dim Mireille seven by two.
So seven comma two.
And what that means is that we have seven draws,
each with two elements.
So in our first drawer,
that is number one of seven.
We will have 12 boxes of data,
and that's the two here.
In a second drawer,
we will have one two bits of data,
so that would be 22 and then in our third drawer,
we'll have two bits of data in our fourth row.
So the lines or the rose here are the first part of the declaration.
The seven on the two is because we have two columns of data.
Obviously,
we could have as many columns of dangerous who wanted to,
because this is excel.
And then excel Sheet is essentially a two dimensional array.
So no matter Hamli draws,
you have Which is the Rose down here or how many boxes within those draws?
It's still a two dimensional array.
Okay,
so let's take a look at this in action.
I'm just gonna I think I got some typos in here that wouldn't work.
That will work now.
Okay,
So what we're going to need to do,
is is because we have two dimensions.
We're gonna have toe have a loop within a loop,
the outer loop to increment this number on the inner loop to increment this number.
So I'm just going to step straight the way through to the code here,
to the loop,
every room where we write the data.
So I'm just gonna hit d bogan,
run to cursor now,
added a watch in here so we can see what's happening.
And you can see that there's another plus now by my r a C one.
And when I hit that,
you can see that we have C +11 is empty and see +12 is empty.
Now the 1st 1 is going to be the row number on the 2nd 1 On the second to are going to be
this book.
It's on this book.
It all these boxes.
So notice what happens here.
My OTA loop equals 1 to 7 because we have 1234567 lines in here.
So our outer loop we're gonna hit F eight on the outer loop now becomes a value off one.
Now in a loop is gonna loot from 1 to 2 because we have 12 columns of data I can click over
here in Excel because we use in cells,
which means it doesn't matter where the cursory is.
In excel,
the cells reference to sell.
Absolutely so on the first pass through the outer loop is going to be worth one on the
inner loop is going to be worth one.
So here we go.
My absolute peace.
1 may in a loop is one.
So my array one one is gonna equals sells 11 dot value.
So it's gonna be looking here and notice what happens down here.
F eight read as being read.
And now,
because we're still on the inner loop,
I'm just gonna hit F eight on the inner loop is now worth two.
So when they're looking at Row one column to Ana Array is in the outer loop one.
So we're still on the first roll,
but the inner loop is no to So it's gonna be looking at this box and then repress f eight
and notice what happens here.
We've no successfully read a.
Now we're going to go to our outer loop again.
So we're going to come up here.
A little loop is now worth two.
So in no loading into here,
I'm just going to step through.
On they go.
I can just keep clicking these.
In fact,
let's open all of these and you can see them as they go.
So there we go on now,
as we looked through,
you can see that we're reading Column a here column B here column a here column B here,
step over,
May through I'm happy That's gonna work.
So I'm just gonna hit the book on drums.
Cursor on there we have all of our data loaded,
so we have our first I mentioned 11 2131 is reading column A.
On the second dimension is reading a be see on.
Then we just reverse that process to write it back here.
So again we have a now toe loop that's going to reiterate from one through seven and in a
loop that's going to rates from 1 to 2 and just write that data over here.
So I'm just going to step through and you can see that that's right in beautifully.
There's no point in adding on a raise a ray statement at the end of this,
because it's static until you close excel.
It is going to continue to be held in memory.
So I'm just going to run that out and they go.
That's how you read on right on Baltic Dimensional Array again.
The next lecture,
we're gonna have a look at how we make that dynamic,
and it's a lot simpler than you may think.
Okay,
I'll see you in the next lecture